NEXT-12552 - Add libraries (#113)
shopware/docs: guides/plugins/plugins/plugin-fundamentals/using-composer-dependencies.md

# Use Composer dependencies

In this guide you'll learn how add Composer dependencies to your project.

## Prerequisites

All you need for this guide is a running Shopware 6 instance and full access to both the files and a running plugin. Of course you'll have to understand PHP, but that's a prerequisite for Shopware as a whole and will not be taught as part of this documentation. Further a basic understanding Node and NPM is required.

## Adding a composer plugin to the `composer.json` file

Adding a `Composer` dependency to a plugin is easier then adding a `npm`, because the `composer.json` file already exists if you have followed the [Plugin base guide](../plugin-base-guide.md).
`Composer`dependencies also don't have to be imported to build system.

In this guide we will install [`monolog`](https://github.com/Seldaek/monolog), wich can create log channels and write them to files. 

> `monlog` is already bundled with Symfony, but this is only an example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`monolog` is already bundled with Symfony, but this is only an example.
```

> # Use Composer dependencies

Reviewer: Nope Nope Nope. Das geht alles nicht was hier steht...

- Nimm erstmal ein anderes Package was nicht in Shopware 6 drin ist. Sonst wirst du erstmal nix merken
- Vor dem composer install im Plugin Ordner muss man alle shopware/* requires rausnehmen, sonst hat man Shopware 6 in sein Plugin Ordner
- Die nachträglich wieder einfügen
- Der Vendor Ordner des Plugins muss mitgeliefert werden
- Du musst in der Bootstrap (PluginName.php) den Vendor Ordner selber laden.
https://github.com/FriendsOfShopware/FroshPlatformTemplateMail/blob/master/src/FroshPlatformTemplateMail.php#L15-L17

Reviewer 2: Was Shyim sagen will:
Es muss erklärt werden, dass erstmal alle requires entfernt müssen, die Shopware selbst (also platform o.Ä.) laden. Dann `composer install` ausführen, damit Composer die Packages lädt und dann nachträglich das requires wieder einfügen.

> In this guide you'll learn how add Composer dependencies to your project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this guide you'll learn how to add Composer dependencies to your project.
```

## Prerequisites

All you need for this guide is a running Shopware 6 instance and full access to both the files and a running plugin. Of course you'll have to understand PHP, but that's a prerequisite for Shopware as a whole and will not be taught as part of this documentation. Further a basic understanding Node and NPM is required.

## Adding a composer plugin to the `composer.json` file

Adding a `Composer` dependency to a plugin is easier then adding a `npm`, because the `composer.json` file already exists if you have followed the [Plugin base guide](../plugin-base-guide.md).

> `Composer`dependencies also don't have to be imported to build system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Composer` dependencies also don't have to be imported to build system.
```

In this guide we will install [`monolog`](https://github.com/Seldaek/monolog), wich can create log channels and write them to files. 
`monlog` is already bundled with Symfony, but this is only an example.

> So to install `monlog` simply run `composer require monolog/monolog` in your plugin directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So to install `monolog` simply run `composer require monolog/monolog` in your plugin directory.
```

## Using the composer plugin

> PHP doesn't require a build system, wich means that we can just add `use` statements and then use the composer dependency directly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PHP doesn't require a build system, which means that we can just add `use` statements and then use the composer dependency directly.
```

The following code sample imports the `Monolog\Logger` and the `Monolog\Handler\StreamHandler`
and uses them based on the [basic usage](https://github.com/Seldaek/monolog#basic-usage) in the boot hook of our plugin.

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/SwagBasicExample.php" %}
```php
<?php declare(strict_types=1);

namespace SwagBasicExample;

use Monolog\Logger;
use Monolog\Handler\StreamHandler;

use Shopware\Core\Framework\Plugin;

class SwagBasicExample extends Plugin
{
    public function boot(): void
    {
        // create a log channel
        $log = new Logger('name');
        $log->pushHandler(new StreamHandler(__DIR__.'/SwagBasicExample.log', Logger::WARNING));
        
        // add records to the log
        $log->warning('Foo');
        $log->error('Bar');
    }
}
```
{% endcode %}

> ## Next steps
> 
> Now that you know how to include new `compsoer` dependencies you might want to [install `npm` dependencies](./using-npm-dependencies.md) or even add [dependencies to other plugins](./add-plugin-dependencies.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

## Next steps

Now that you know how to include new `composer` dependencies you might want to [install `npm` dependencies](./using-npm-dependencies.md) or even add [dependencies to other plugins](./add-plugin-dependencies.md)
```

Reviewer 2: Still open

# Use Composer dependencies

> In this guide you'll learn how add Composer dependencies to your project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this guide you'll learn how to add Composer dependencies to your project.
```

## Prerequisites

All you need for this guide is a running Shopware 6 instance and full access to both the files and a running plugin. Of course you'll have to understand PHP, but that's a prerequisite for Shopware as a whole and will not be taught as part of this documentation. Further a basic understanding Node and NPM is required.

## Adding a composer plugin to the `composer.json` file

> In this guide we will install [`exporter`](https://github.com/sebastianbergmann/exporter), wich provides the functionality to export PHP variables for visualization.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this guide we will install [`exporter`](https://github.com/sebastianbergmann/exporter), which provides the functionality to export PHP variables for visualization.
```

We have to manually remove all of the references to Shopware itself from the `composer.json` file, that was created in the [Plugin base guide](../plugin-base-guide.md),

> before we add our own dependencies to it. This is done to `composer` from downloading Shopware into the `vendor` folder.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
before we add our own dependencies to it. This is done to prevent `composer` from downloading Shopware into the `vendor` folder.
```

Now we can simply install `exporter` by running `composer require sebastian/exporter` in your plugin directory.

After that we have to add our dependency to shopware back in.

{% hint style="warning" %}
The `vendor` directory, where the composer saves the dependencies, has to be included in the plugin bundle.
The plugin bundle size is not allowed to exceed 5 MB.
{% endhint %}

## Loading the `autoload.php`

The `composer require` command created the `autoload.php` that we now need to require in our plugin.

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/SwagBasicExample.php" %}
```php
if (file_exists(dirname(__DIR__) . '/vendor/autoload.php')) {
    require_once dirname(__DIR__) . '/vendor/autoload.php';
}
```
{% endcode %}

## Using the composer plugin

> PHP doesn't require a build system, wich means that we can just add `use` statements and then use the composer dependency directly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PHP doesn't require a build system, which means that we can just add `use` statements and then use the composer dependency directly.
```

All you need for this guide is a running Shopware 6 instance and full access to both the files and a running plugin. Of course you'll have to understand PHP, but that's a prerequisite for Shopware as a whole and will not be taught as part of this documentation. Further a basic understanding Node and NPM is required.

## Adding a composer plugin to the `composer.json` file

Adding a `Composer` dependency to a plugin is easier then adding a `npm`, because the `composer.json` file already exists if you have followed the [Plugin base guide](../plugin-base-guide.md).
`Composer`dependencies also don't have to be imported to build system.

In this guide we will install [`exporter`](https://github.com/sebastianbergmann/exporter), wich provides the functionality to export PHP variables for visualization.

Before we can install our own dependencies, we have to manually remove all of the references to Shopware itself.
So that `composer` isn't downloading Shopware into the `vendor` folder.

Now we can simply install `exporter` by running `composer require sebastian/exporter` in your plugin directory.

After that we have to add our dependency to shopware back in.

{% hint style="warning" %}

> The `vendor` directory, where the composer saves the dependencies, has to be included in the plugin bundle.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `vendor` directory, where composer saves the dependencies, must be included in the plugin bundle.
```
